make readme awesome (#85)
openvalidation/openvalidation: README.md

 <br/><br/>
 <a href="https://openvalidation.io" target="_blank">openvalidation.io</a> | <a href="https://playground.openvalidation.io" target="_blank">playground.openvalidation.io</a> | <a href="https://docs.openvalidation.io" target="_blank">docs.openvalidation.io</a>
  <br/><br/>
   <span>a natural language (no-code) compiler for validation rules</span>  
</p>

<br/><br/><br/>
## contents
<br/>

- [introduction](#introduction)
- [install](#install)
  - [npm](#npm)
  - [jar](#jar)
  - [docker image](#docker-image)
- [run](#run)
  - [npm](#npm-cli)
  - [jar](#executable-jar)
  - [docker container](#docker-container)
  - [result](#result)  
  - [cli parameters](#cli-parameters)    
- [integrate](#integrate)
- [samples](#samples)
- [understand](#understand)
- [try](#try)
- [contribute](#contribute)
- [contact](#contact)
- [license](#license)

<br/><br/><br/>
## introduction
<br/>

<a href="https://openvalidation.io" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><img width="200" src="docs/ci/logo-v2.png" alt="a natural language compiler for validation rules"></a>

<br/>

> openVALIDATION enables programming validation rules using natural language, such as German or English. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
openVALIDATION enables programming validation rules using natural languages, such as German or English. 
```

> openVALIDATION enables programming validation rules using natural language, such as German or English. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
openVALIDATION enables the programming of validation rules using natural language, such as German or English. 
```

> The rules recorded in natural language are readable not only by humans but also by the machines and therefore no longer need to be programmed by a software developer. This task is now taken over by openVALIDATION compiler. With integrated code generators, corresponding source code in the desired programming language can be generated automatically, such as Java, C#, JavaScript or Python, with more to come. This code can then be integrated into any application (services, frontends, middleware). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules recorded in natural language are readable not only by humans but also by machines and therefore no longer need to be programmed by a software developer. This task is now taken over by openVALIDATION compiler. With integrated code generators, corresponding source code in the desired programming language can be generated automatically, such as Java, C#, JavaScript or Python, with more to come. This code can then be integrated into any application (services, frontends, middleware). 
```

```

### docker image

```
docker pull openvalidation/openvalidation-rest
```

<br/><br/><br/>
## run
<br/>

### npm cli

```bash
openvalidation -r "user's age should not be less than 18 years" -s "{age:0}" -c en -l javascript
```

### executable jar

```
java -jar openvalidation.jar -r "user's age should not be less than 18 years" -s "{age : 0}"  -c en -l javascript
```

### docker container
```

docker run -p 7070:80  openvalidation/openvalidation-rest

curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"rule\":\"user's age should not be less than 18 years\",\"culture\":\"en\",\"language\":\"JavaScript\",\"schema\":\"{age:0}\"}" http://localhost:7070/

```
<br/>

### result

The following JavaScript code will be generated:

```javascript

var HUMLValidator = function() {
    var huml = new HUMLFramework();
    
        huml.appendRule("",
            ["age"],
            "user&#x27;s age should not be less than 18 years",
            function(model) { 
                return huml.LESS_THAN(model.age, 18.0);
            },
            false
        );

    this.validate = function(model){
        return huml.validate(model);
    }
}

```

> The generated code does not depend on the 3'rd party libraries at all. Therefore, a custom framework is generated in addition to the rules. This framework contains a basic architecture to integrate the generated validation rules more easily into other systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated code does not depend on 3'rd party libraries at all. Therefore, a custom framework is generated in addition to the rules. This framework contains a basic architecture to integrate the generated validation rules more easily into other systems.
```

  <tr>
    <td>
      <br/><br/>
      user's <i>age</i> <b>-</b> <i>18</i> years <b>as</b> <i>actual work experience</i>
      <br/><br/>
    </td>
    <td>{age:0}</td>
    <td>arithmetic</td>    
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <br/><br/>
      <i>age</i> and <b>smaller as operator</b> <i>younger</i>
      <br/><br/>
      user <b>must not</b> be <i>younger</i> than <i>18</i> years
      <br/><br/>
    </td>
    <td>{age:0}</td>
    <td>semantic, domain specific comparison operator</td>    
  </tr>   
  <tr>
    <td>
      <br/><br/>
      <b>first</b> item <b>from</b> <i>names</i> <b>as</b> <i>Boss</i>
<br/><br/>    
      the <i>Boss</i> <b>should</b> be <i>Alex</i>
      <br/><br/>
    </td>
    <td>{names:['Alex','Peter','Helmut']}</td>
    <td>first item from list</td>    
  </tr>     
  <tr>
    <td>
      <br/><br/>
      <b>first</b> number <b>from</b> <i>numbers</i> <b>with</b> a value <b>bigger</b> than 3 <b>as</b> <i>magic number</i>
<br/><br/>    
      the <i>magic number</i> <b>has</b> to be <i>4</i>
      <br/><br/>
    </td>
    <td>{numbers:[1,2,3,4,5,6,7]}</td>
    <td>filtering the list</td>    
  </tr>  
  
</table>

<br/><br/><br/>
## understand
<br/>

> openVALIDATION enables programming of validation rules using natural language, such as German or English and many more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
openVALIDATION enables programming of validation rules using natural languages, such as German or English and many more.
```

<p align="center">
<img src="https://blobscdn.gitbook.com/v0/b/gitbook-28427.appspot.com/o/assets%2F-LZu2slXWxv3PqRBZ9rs%2F-L_6dad7BzkwzHIkvLuu%2F-L_6n6-bhPwuuuHonLpy%2Fgrammar2.png?alt=media&token=b5588e1b-19df-4330-9575-43e33f39a0cd" width="80%"/>
</p>

<br/><br/>
For more details check out our [documentation and guides](https://docs.openvalidation.io)

<br/><br/><br/>
## try
<br/>

try it out directly in the browser on the [playground](https://playground.openvalidation.io/)

<br/><br/><br/>
## contribute
<br/>

We still have 2 zeros in the version 0.0.X of openVALIDATION, so there is still a lot to do. If you want to join us, you are more than welcome to participate! 

Check our [contribution guide](https://docs.openvalidation.io/contribution/contribution-guide).

Even if you're not a developer or don't fully understand the technical part of openVALIDATION yet, it doesn't matter. There are many different ways to join the project. 

> Check our [contribution guide specially for beginners](https://docs.openvalidation.io/contribution/for-beginners)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check our [contribution guide especially for beginners](https://docs.openvalidation.io/contribution/for-beginners)
```

<br/><br/>
Thank you to all the people and bots who already contributed to openVALIDATION!

<!-- generate new contributor list.. https://contributors-img.firebaseapp.com/ -->
<a href="https://github.com/openvalidation/openvalidation/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://contributors-img.firebaseapp.com/image?repo=openvalidation/openvalidation"/>
</a>

<br/><br/><br/>
## contact
<br/>

> You can write an [E-Mail](mailto:validaria@openvalidation.io), mention our twitter account [@openVALIDATION](https://twitter.com/openVALIDATION) or message us at our instagram account [@openvalidation_](https://www.instagram.com/openvalidation_/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can write an [E-Mail](mailto:validaria@openvalidation.io), mention our twitter account [@openVALIDATION](https://twitter.com/openVALIDATION) or message us at our Instagram account [@openvalidation_](https://www.instagram.com/openvalidation_/).
```

<br/><br/><br/>
## license
<br/>

openVALIDATION was initially developed as part of a research project at [BROCKHAUS AG](http://brockhaus-ag.de) in Dortmund.

> Only an Open Source solution has the ability to unfold its true potential. That's why we released it on GitHub as an open source project under the Apache 2.0 license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only an Open Source solution can unfold its true potential. That's why we released it on GitHub as an open-source project under the Apache 2.0 license.
```
